---
category: home
layout: default
---

# Importing PromiseKit

In your [Podfile](http://guides.cocoapods.org/using/using-cocoapods.html):

{% highlight ruby %}
pod 'PromiseKit'
{% endhighlight %}

In your `.m` files:

{% highlight c %}
#import <PromiseKit.h>
{% endhighlight %}

In your `.swift` files:
{% highlight swift %}
import PromiseKit
{% endhighlight %}

PromiseKit is modulized; if you only want `PMKPromise` and none of our category additions:

{% highlight ruby %}
pod 'PromiseKit/Promise'
{% endhighlight %}

Or if you only want some of our categories:

{% highlight ruby %}
pod 'PromiseKit/NSURLConnection'
pod 'PromiseKit/UIActionSheet'
pod 'PromiseKit/UIAlertView'
# et cetera
{% endhighlight %}

There is a CocoaPods subspec for every category and an umbrella subspec for every framework (eg. `Promisekit/Foundation`, `Promisekit/UIKit`, etc.). If you don’t want to think about it then choose `pod 'PromiseKit'` or `pod 'PromiseKit/all'`; `all` is *everything*. 

<aside>
Asking for just the `PromiseKit` pod gives you the 80% most people want, ie. `PMKPromise`, the `NSURLConnection` & `NSNotifcationCenter` category additions and the `UIKit` category additions.
</aside>


## Without CocoaPods

If you don’t want to use CocoaPods you can use [CocoaPods Packager](https://github.com/CocoaPods/cocoapods-packager) to generate a static version of PromiseKit and just embed that.

Please update regularly though, currently PromiseKit is updated *twice a week*.


## Swift

Currently CocoaPods does not have good Swift support. To use PromiseKit in your Swift project, add all of the `swift` directory to your sources and in your `xcodeproj` drag and drop `PromiseKit.xcodeproj` into your sources. Next configure your project to depend on PromiseKit and to link to it and to embed it into your final app.

Alternatively directly compile all the sources into your sources. If you do this, `Promise` will be available without having to `import PromiseKit` in your `.swift` files.
