---
category: docs
layout: default
---

# Swift

To integrate Swift PromiseKit, choose one of these options:

1. Use CocoaPods 0.36 and `pod "PromiseKit/Swift"`
2. Use Carthage and `github "mxcl/PromiseKit"`
3. Drag and drop PromiseKit.xcodeproj into your project. Clone `OMGHTTPURLRQ` and add its xcodeproj. Add both frameworks to your embedded binaries section in your project settings.

**Please note! CocoaPods will only work with Swift with iOS 8 targets. This is not my fault, please stop opening tickets about it.**

If you absolutely need Swift and iOS 7 then you will have to manually compile PromiseKit into your app. If you know a better solution then please open a ticket about it.

# Swift Documentation

Currently the Swift version is undocumented. The Swift version is “complete” but I am waiting on newer versions of Xcode before I commit entirely to its API, so I still consider it a work-in-progress.

The xcodeproj itself contains an example Swift app with promises.

## Using objc PromiseKit in Swift Projects

Currently, this is not easy or nice. Use this extension:

{% highlight swift %}
extension PMKPromise {
    private func objCBlockFromPromiseClosure(closure: (AnyObject) -> (PMKPromise?)) -> AnyObject {
        return unsafeBitCast(closure as @objc_block (AnyObject) -> (PMKPromise?), AnyObject.self)
    }
    func swiftThen(closure: (AnyObject) -> (PMKPromise?)) -> PMKPromise {
        return self.then()(objCBlockFromPromiseClosure(closure))
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

Version 2 is being written (for release in a reasonable time frame) and will attempt to make it so Swift and Objective C promises are compatible. This is no trivial task (due to objc PromiseKit having fancy features) or we’d have done it already.

<div><a class="pagination" href="/api">Next: API Overview</a></div>
