---
category: home
layout: default
---

# Appendix

## Sources

<a href="https://github.com/mxcl/promisekit">PromiseKit at GitHub</a>

## Guides/Blogs

* [A series of recipes to aid understanding how to use PromiseKit](http://philmitchell.github.io/PromiseKit/)
* [Promises Pay](http://blog.popularpays.com/tech/2014/4/28/popular-promises)
* [PromiseKit + AFNetworking](http://oramind.com/promisekit-afnetworking/)
* [Making Promises](https://medium.com/the-traveled-ios-developers-guide/making-promises-417f13da901f)


## Edge Case Behavior #1

Does a `then` that follows a void-returning, non-throwing `catch` run?

{% highlight objectivec %}
self.kitten.then(^(UIImage *image){
    @throw @1;
}).catch(^(NSError *error){
    [[UIAlertView alertWithError:error] show];
    
    // notice we didn't throw or return. Thus the catch returns a promise with value nil.
    
}).then(^{
    // thus we will indeed be run
});
{% endhighlight %}

Yes. It runs. If you need the `catch` to completely stop your chain you must either throw again (often: a code smell), or restructure your promises; probably you didn’t want them to chain in this manner. For example the above could probably just move the catch to be the last handler in the chain.

## Edge Case Behavior #2

`finally` does not have to be the last component in the chain. It too returns a promise. Its promise is a pass-through of the previous handler.

{% highlight objectivec %}
self.kitten.then(^(UIImage *image){
    return image;
}).finally(^{
    //…
}).then(^(UIImage *kittenImage){
    // runs!
});

// versus:

self.kitten.then(^(UIImage *image){
    @throw @1;
}).finally(^{
    //…
}).then(^(UIImage *kittenImage){
    // doesn’t run!
})
{% endhighlight %}


## Unusually Tolerant Syntax

The block you pass to `then` or `catch` can have return type of `Promise`, or any object, any primitive, or nothing. And it can have a parameter of `id`, or a specific class type, or nothing, or even multiple parameters (if the previous Promise fulfilled with multiple values).

So all of these are valid however `myPromise` is resolved:

{% highlight objectivec %}
myPromise.then(^{
    // no return
});

myPromise.then(^(id obj){
    // no return
});

myPromise.then(^(id obj){
    return @1;
});

myPromise.then(^{
    return @2;
});
{% endhighlight %}

Clang is smart so you don’t (usually) have to specify a return type for your block.

This is not usual to Objective-C or blocks. Usually everything is very explicit. We are using introspection to determine what arguments and return types you are working with. Thus, programming with PromiseKit has similarities to programming with (more) modern languages like Ruby or Javascript.

<aside>If you return two different types in your block you will have to specify an `id` return type for your block. Usually this is necessary if you are returning an `NSError` and some other object elsewhere in your block.</aside>

In fact these (and more) are also fine:

{% highlight objectivec %}
myPromise.then(^{
    return 1;
}).then(^(NSNumber *n){
    assert([n isEqual:@1]);
});

myPromise.then(^{
    return false;
}).then(^(NSNumber *n){
    assert([n isEqual:@NO]);
});
{% endhighlight %}

However we do not convert block parameters if you should specify them as primitives. This is possible so pull-requests are welcome, however it would significantly increase the complexity of our code so many, many tests will be unfortunately necessary with your PR!


## The Fine Print

The fine print of PromiseKit is mostly exactly what you would expect, so don’t confuse yourself: only come back here when you find yourself curious about more advanced techniques.

* Returning a Promise as the value of a `then` (or `catch`) handler will cause any subsequent handlers to wait for that Promise to resolve.
* Returning an instance of `NSError` or throwing an exception within a then block will cause PromiseKit to bubble that object up to the *next* nearest catch handler.
* `catch` handlers are *always* passed an `NSError` object.
* `then` handlers that follow `catch` handlers **will** execute. So if your `catch` handler returns nothing, the next `then` will execute with `nil` as its parameter.
* Returning an `NSError` (or `@throw`ing) from a `catch` will “throw” to the next catch.
* Returning a non-error value from a `catch` will pass that value to the next `then`
* Nothing happens if you add a `then` to a failed Promise (unless you subsequently add a `catch` handler to the Promise returned from that `then`)


## Promises/A+ Compliance

PromiseKit is [compliant](http://promisesaplus.com) excluding:

* Our `then` does not take a failure handler, instead we have a dedicated `catch`
* Returning an `NSError *` from a `then` or `catch` rejects the returned `Promise`, strictly the specification dictates that only throwing should reject a promise.
* Strictly you should be able to fulfill a Promise with any object, however we do not allow you to fulfill a Promise with an `NSError` object. If you do, the Promise is rejected.

If you find further non-compliance please open a [ticket](https://github.com/mxcl/PromiseKit/issues/new).


## Beyond Promises/A+

* Promises can be fulfilled with multiple arguments which are then passed to the next `then`
* We offer a `when`/`all`
* We offer an `until`


## Alternatives to PromiseKit

Promises/Futures are not my invention, so take your pick:

* [BrightFutures](https://github.com/Thomvis/BrightFutures) a good one.
* [Bolts](https://github.com/BoltsFramework/Bolts-iOS) 
  * More or less a promises implementation.
  * The syntax is not as nice. Your “thens” must always take a single (just one!) argument and always return an object (even if you have nothing to return, you must return `nil`). It is our opinion that this additional clutter reduces the clarity of your code.
  * You don’t get any categories to help you use Apple’s APIs out the box.
  * But, it’s built into Parse, so if you’re using that you’re already set.
  * More flexible at a lower level than PromiseKit (eg. you can define your own execution queues)
  * Not modular. The framework itself even comes with a completely unrelated URL parsing library.
* [Reactive Cocoa](https://github.com/ReactiveCocoa/ReactiveCocoa) Reactive Cocoa is amazing, but requires a large shift in the way you program. PromiseKit is a happier compromise between the way most people program for iOS and a pure reactive paradigm. However, reactive programming is probably the future of our art.

If you desire something more *bare-bones* there are numerous github projects with the word “task” or “promise” in the title that you may prefer.

PromiseKit is well-tested, and inside hundreds of apps on the store. It also is fully documented, even within Xcode (⌥ click any method).

<div><a class="pagination" href="/glossary">Next: Glossary</a></div>
